Welcome, dear brothers and sisters.
In this program, it’s my pleasure
to share reports
about our in-person activities.
We’ll also provide updates
about our disaster relief efforts.
And, finally,
in view of the rapidly changing world scene,
we’ll discuss the need
for decisive action
when we are confronted
with dangerous circumstances.
Since September 1, 2022,
we’ve resumed
the house-to-house ministry.
And we also had a worldwide campaign
to offer Bible studies,
using the Enjoy Life Forever!  brochure.
Many honesthearted ones are responding
to this “good news of something better.”
Since our last update,
it was announced that as of October 1,
we are no longer
strongly recommending mask wearing
while attending in-person meetings.
So unless it’s a governmental requirement,
it is a personal choice
whether to wear a mask while participating
in theocratic activities.
We respect the individual decisions
of our brothers and sisters on this matter.
This direction will also apply
to our in-person theocratic schools,
circuit assemblies,
and regional conventions when they resume
in 2023.
By January 1, 2023,
if it is Jehovah’s will,
we hope to have returned to most
of our prepandemic arrangements,
in harmony
with local governmental regulations.
There are some activities
that have not yet been approved to resume,
such as Bethel tours and guests.
But what about beyond January 1?
We’re excited to inform you
that, Jehovah willing,
we’ll resume in-person special conventions
starting January 1, 2024.
More information
on the specific locations and dates
will be announced soon.
We’re very happy to share these
positive developments with you.
During the pandemic, tragically,
many of us have lost loved ones
to COVID-19.
Sadly, others have lost loved ones
because of war,
natural disasters,
or other painful circumstances.
In recent times,
likely you’ve shared
the Bible’s message of comfort
with a coworker,
a neighbor, or a relative.
To help us in such situations,
we’re pleased to announce the release
of a new video.
It is entitled
Comfort for Those Who Mourn.
We’re confident that this video
will be a valuable tool
to help us
comfort our relatives and other acquaintances
—even those who may not be
religiously inclined.
Please enjoy watching this comforting video.
Our family and friends are precious to us.
They show us love.
They are there when we need them.
So when we lose a loved one in death,
we want comfort
from someone who understands.
God and his Son, Jesus, understand.
While on earth,
Jesus experienced the pain
of losing family and friends.
After the death
of a close friend named Lazarus,
Jesus’ grief was intense.
He felt what others felt.
The pain was crushing.
Yet, his empathy
moved him to comfort others.
Still, he wanted to do more.
Jesus spoke with his Father
and brought his friend back to life.
Jehovah God and Jesus have not changed.
They feel pain when people die.
They feel your pain
and have promised to eliminate death.
“[God] will swallow up death forever . . .
“Jehovah will wipe away the tears
from all faces.”
Jesus also gave
this beautiful promise for the future.
“Do not be amazed at this,
“for the hour is coming
“in which all those in the memorial tombs
will hear his voice and come out.”
A special magazine entitled
“Help for Those Who Grieve”
has been prepared to provide comfort.
You can download your copy
free of charge at jw.org.
We are sorry for your loss
and hope that this message
will provide you comfort
during this difficult time.
This video is now available
on jw.org
and in JW Library®.
You can find it under What’s New
and also under VIDEOS >
OUR MEETINGS AND MINISTRY >
TOOLS FOR THE MINISTRY.
In order for you
to have easy access to this video
in JW Library®,
you may choose to add it to your favorites.
We also have some updates
about our disaster relief efforts.
As reported on JW News,
Hurricanes Fiona and Ian
have affected our brothers and sisters
in the Caribbean and in parts
of Canada and the United States.
Sadly, one brother in Cuba died.
Between the two storms,
over 3,600 of our brothers’ homes
and over 100 Kingdom Halls
were damaged or destroyed.
The branch offices
are working hard to provide assistance
and spiritual encouragement.
We continue to pray
for all those affected by natural disasters
and for all those who are providing relief.
You may also be wondering,
‘How are our brothers
in Ukraine and Russia doing?’
Since February,
over 26,000 brothers and sisters
have chosen to flee areas affected
by the war in Ukraine.
Because of recent events,
thousands of people are fleeing Russia.
This includes some of our brothers.
At the outset,
some thought the war might last
for only a few weeks or months.
But this is not the case.
If you have fled the war to another country,
please know
that we want to help you to regain
a sense of normalcy in your lives
as soon as possible.
What are we doing to assist?
Well, let’s watch the following report
from the Central Europe branch.
In our branch territory,
over 8,500 brothers and sisters
arrived as refugees.
In March, the Coordinators’ Committee
directed that we appoint case monitors
to work under the direction
of Disaster Relief Committees.
Case monitors work along with elders
to help individuals and families
to maintain their spiritual routine
and become self-sufficient.
Some publishers have been able
to make personal arrangements
to obtain accommodations and employment.
Others have been able to benefit
from government programs.
We have found that the sooner
we can help our brothers
to get settled into their own home,
to find employment,
and to associate with a local congregation,
the sooner they feel a sense of normalcy.
This benefits them spiritually,
physically, and emotionally.
Jehovah is really blessing these efforts.
It’s encouraging to hear
how so many are working hard
to help our refugee brothers
get back to a more normal life.
And we’re so proud of our refugee brothers
for being flexible
and for having realistic expectations.
We are also working to assist
various branch offices around the world,
especially in Europe,
to be better equipped to deal
with potential energy shortages.
This may be in the form
of adding solar panels,
generators, and battery backups.
This will help branches
to continue their vital work
of delivering spiritual food
and giving support and direction
to congregation activities.
But now, for the next few minutes,
let’s discuss the theme
“When You See Danger, Act Quickly!”
No doubt you’d agree
that “the scene of this world is changing.”
The relative stability we’ve experienced
in various parts of the world
seems to be rapidly disappearing.
There are so many natural disasters,
increased unrest, war,
threats of food shortages,
energy shortages, and more.
What should we do
when we are personally confronted
with such dangers?
Well, please turn with me
to Proverbs chapter 22,
and let’s read together verse number 3.
“The shrewd one sees the danger
“and conceals himself,
“but the inexperienced keep right on going
and suffer the consequences.”
Yes, when we see danger,
we’re wise to conceal ourselves.
But we must act quickly!
This is true now,
and it was true in Bible times too.
Consider a few examples.
When David faced threats of attack
from Saul or others,
he quickly got up and ran away.
In the first century,
Jehovah’s angel told Joseph
to take newborn Jesus and Mary
and flee to Egypt because
“Herod is about to search
for the young child to kill him.”
So Joseph and Mary
left that night.
Later, Jesus told Christians
to flee when they saw Jerusalem
surrounded by armies.
Let’s read that at Luke chapter 21,
and we’re going to read together
verses 20 and 21:
“However, when you see Jerusalem
“surrounded by encamped armies,
“then know that the desolating of her
“has drawn near.
“Then let those in Judea
“begin fleeing to the mountains,
“let those in the midst of her leave,
“and let those in the countryside
not enter into her.”
What’s the point?
When we see danger,
we don’t need to panic,
but we do need to act quickly.
That may mean fleeing the area where we live
and saying goodbye to some
or even all of our possessions.
Many of our brothers and sisters
in Ukraine and Russia
are facing this question:
Should I flee because of the war?
That can be
a very difficult decision to make.
Unless the government directs us to flee,
it’s a personal decision.
We do not expect Jesus or an angel
to tell us to leave.
But Jehovah does expect us
to use our “power of reason.”
He wants us to act wisely.
Let’s see how one family from Ukraine
responded when they realized
they were in danger.
Even before the war started,
there had been warnings.
We had family worship
and studied an article
from the Awake!  magazine.
There was a lot of advice
about emergency kits
and having a plan of what you will do.
We made a firm decision that if war broke out
and there were explosions, we would not stay.
Each one of us
had our own emergency kit ready.
We had put them in the hallway
before everything started.
I told the children:
“Aside from your backpack,
take only what you really need.”
Each child took only one extra change
of clothes, and that’s it.
And we had filled up the tank in the car.
Up to that moment, before the war,
we had never had a full tank.
We thought, ‘Let there never be war,
but at least we’ll have a full tank.’
We were ready and waiting, but what next?
Was it safe to go or not?
The elders called and told me
to weigh the pros and cons.
Then there was an explosion.
The windows and the doors shook,
and I thought,
‘No, we have to leave; that will be safer.’
So the whole family
—me, my wife, and our five children—
took our backpacks to the car.
It took us just a few minutes
to get the car ready.
And when we were leaving,
all the gas stations
were crowded and there were huge queues.
Our tank was full, so we only had to fill up
again near the border.
We were at the border for 21 hours.
It took 21 hours
moving the car little by little.
Time and again we are convinced
that Jehovah’s advice is always for the best
—even if we don’t understand why,
we should follow it always—
and that obedience brings blessings.
That’s how it works.
Being prepared allowed them
to make the personal decision
to leave quickly
when they saw the danger.
Ahead of time,
they obediently followed the direction
to have go bags
and a full tank of gas in the car.
Dear brothers and sisters,
because of the instability of the world,
we have to be prepared mentally,
physically, and spiritually
for disasters
and rapidly changing circumstances.
Today, it’s affecting these brothers,
but tomorrow it may be affecting us.
But we can be sure
that we will all stand together
and help one another
through whatever challenges we may face.
This is a time for us to support one another.
And, really, relief work
is a vital part of our sacred service.
Please turn with me to Acts chapter 11.
We’re going to take a look
at verses 28 and 29:
“One of them named Agabus
“stood up and foretold through the spirit
“that a great famine
“was about to come
on the entire inhabited earth,
“which, in fact, did take place
in the time of Claudius.
“So the disciples determined,
“each according to what he could afford,
“to send relief
to the brothers living in Judea.”
The study note on verse 29
helps us appreciate
that “this is the first recorded instance
“of Christians sending relief aid
to fellow Christians
living in another part of the world.”
The study note goes on to explain:
“The Greek word di·a·ko·niʹa,
“often rendered ‘ministry,’
“is also used in the sense of ‘relief work’
“at Ac 12:25
“and ‘relief ministry’ at 2Co 8:4.
“The use of the Greek word di·a·ko·niʹa
“in the Christian Greek Scriptures
“shows that Christians
have a twofold ministry.
“One aspect is . . .
the preaching and teaching work.
“The other aspect involves their ministry
“in behalf of fellow believers,
as mentioned here.
“Paul . . . showed that these
different aspects of the Christian ministry
all constitute ‘sacred service.’”
So we see that relief work
is sacred service.
It is a vital part of our ministry.
We often say thank you,
but we want you to know
how very much we appreciate
that you are generously supporting
our relief efforts.
You’re providing food
and rebuilding homes and Kingdom Halls.
When refugees come,
you’re welcoming them at border crossings
and into your homes.
You’re helping our brothers
rebuild their lives
and providing them what they need.
All of this is greatly needed
and deeply appreciated.
Thank you for what you’re doing.
And please know
that we love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.